---
layout: page
title: Biography
permalink: /Bio/
---

I completed my PhD in Prof. Cathal Seoighes research group at the University of Galway. My PhD project aimed to infer the underlying effects of somatic mutations in relatively healthy populations such as the UK Biobank. To answer this research question, I developed analysis pipelines to download, filter and compute information on somatic mutation in 200,000 whole exome sequenced samples (over 175Tb of raw input data!). 

I completed my undergraduate in Biotechnology (2016) and MSc in Biomedical Genomics (2017) both in Galway. I spent 3 months of my third year of undergrad in Vannes, Brittany characterising the biochemical makeup of the burdensome *Solieria Chordalis* which washes ashore on the beaches of the northwest of France every year. For my undergraduate final year project, I worked on trying to find variants associated with memory formation and schizophrenia under the supervision of Derek Morris. Coming from a "wet lab" undergraduate degree my final year project taught me that biological research was not solely pipette and tedious protocols but rather computers and statistics could create insights quickly and easily (and too often from a coffee shop). My Master's thesis involved using simplistic methods to try and infer somatic mutation rates from population sequencing data and the germline variants that impact on the inferred somatic mutation rate. Throughout my MSc, I built a strong knowledge of cancer biology and statistics while developing a strong computational skillset. 

After graduating from my MSc (2018) I worked as a Bioinformatician at EMBL-EBI for the AMP-T2D project. My work on the AMP-T2D project mainly consisted of writing a Type II Diabetes GWAS pipeline to mirror the pipelines at the Broad Institute and push the association statistics to the federated knowledge base at EMBL-EBI. The federated node at the EBI allowed for European genetic data to be housed within Europe and summary-level data to be shared to the knowledge portal hosted at the Broad Institute ([AMPT2DKP](https://t2d.hugeamp.org/){:target="_blank"}) adhering to consent and European data policies. 

I returned to Galway to undertake an Irish research council-funded PhD scholarship working on somatic mutations from population sequencing projects. In 2020 I moved from the IRC post to a Science Foundation Ireland PhD scholarship within the same research group. During my PhD, I acted as a defacto System administrator for two high-performance compute clusters and all the fun that goes along with HPC administration. In 2019, I was awarded a  €25,000 small research equipment grant to contribute to a new high-performance filesystem (250TB usable storage). In the first year of my PhD, I was a tutor for probabilistic modelling for molecular biology. This course covered topics such as Markov chain Monte Carlo methods and models of DNA evolution (Jukes & Cantor, Kimura's 2-parameter model, General time reversible etc...). 

After completing my PhD, I undertook a short postdoctoral position at the University of Galway. This position has allowed me to investigate some novel sources of technical errors in NGS data that arose during the analysis of the UK Biobank exome data. 
